<h2>Executive Review</h2>

The public computers at the university are expensive resource, manpower wise and equipment wise. The decision making regarding these resources is being made while taking into consideration the number of students at every faculty, the number of courses and classes that includes the use of the computers and more.

Due to technological changes (mostly cloud services that enables users to use "heavy" software on their private computers), less and less students are using the public computers at the university. Nevertheless, there is still a big need for these computers- for students’ exercises, and for frontal lectures. As of today, there are 1200 public computers at the university. For a useful exploitation of these resources, a tracking of their usage is much needed.

The responsible body of the public computers is the Computation Center Department of the university. As of today, there are two different software that concern these computers; "public classroom capacity" system, a system that displays the scheduled classes and the classroom capacity of everyday, and "public classroom data" system, that displays the average time of use in the classroom's computers in a defined time range. These two systems are old and have many limitations such as lack of adaptation to newer systems, slow reaction time, many bugs and more. Over the years, several attempts were made to improve and fix the existing software, but current technologies could not support it, so as the lack of cohesiveness that the code was written in. these systems fail to provide reliable information, and they are almost unusable.

Our suggested solution is a computer's activity monitoring system. This system uses new technologies, and provides the display of computer capacity over the university campus, so as a management system that enables the extraction of reports that provides information of the public computer's activity.

Started working on this project, while meeting with head of Personal Computation Section, Mr. Michael Luber, we assessed the current situation, so as the expectation of the system, its limitation and constrains. Also, we define the system needs and examined possible alternatives. From reviewing the existing systems, we concluded that they do not provide with the fundamental needs of the required system, and that the right course of action would be developing a computer's activity monitoring system.

After that we examined different technologies and developing methodologies to develop the system. We chose to use ASP.NET MVC working environment because it met with most of the defined criteria, and we have the most working experience with it. In addition, we chose to work with Microsoft SQL data base engine because of our extensive experience with it, but also because it is ideal for the current working environment. As to our developing methodology we chose Unified Process. Although we don’t have working experience with this methodology, it was the most suitable out of all the ones we examined. This methodology emphasizes on understanding the requirements and needs early in the process, so the development process start when its goals are well clear and defined. Additionally, the development starts from the most critical and main parts of the system and then expands through usage scenarios, a feature that is well suited to our project.

At the next stage we analyzed and designed the upgraded system, defined the function and requirements that the system will include, while emphasizing on its ease to use and usefulness. To understand the structure of the future system, we created usage scenarios, data flow diagram and division charts. We put a lot of effort into this part, as it is very meaningful part of the system development lifecycle. Also, there have been a meticulous analyze to reduce the number of faults and obstacles in the future.

After this phase, we approached the software implementation. We divided the development to iterations, so that in every iteration we focused on a different usage scenario, inspired by the development methodology that we chose. The development in the MVC architecture enables us with a clear, comfortable division of the work, so that one of us focused on developing the display layer, and the other one focused on developing the model layer.

After most of the development was completed, we asked Mr. Luber to examine the system, to see if it meets his expectations. Mr. Luber showed his approval of the system, and gave us more emphasis and requirements. Additionally, to promote the testing and assimilation phase, he allocated resources to build a testing environment that will be as similar as possible to the production environment in the university network.

After installing the required systems, defined and adjusted the allocated resources, we started the process of extensive testing. We checked that all the system parts are working well together and examined the reliability of the data collection as well as the system's statistical analyses.

As for today, the computer's activity monitoring system is a whole system that supply all of client's demands and needs as characterized. The system collects the usage data of the university's computers. Both interfaces are used in the internet. In its configuration, the system is easy to use, and well designed. The system enables the user to observe the computer's capacity in real time, so as managing the computer classroom easily, and extract from it useful and graphical reports that analyze the activity of university computers.

In the future, this system will be introduced to administrative factors in order to get approved and to be implanted into university site.
